# IBM AI Consulting Services Ashley Thornton sp20-516-230

:o2: good start

:o2: how can you develop from this a programming example?

IBM offers a variety of AI consulting services. One of those is IBM RegTech, 
which helps financial institutions with risk assessment and regulatory 
monitoring. It allows companies the ability to become compliant while at the 
same time cutting costs. This is extremely important as the required 
transparency of financial institutions to meet legal issues and ensure 
stakeholder trust continues to increase. RegTech provides timely feedback so 
that companies are risk aware [@ibmregtech-sp20-516-230].

RegTech entered the market in a timely fashion. As of late, the regulatory 
requirements for financial services has vastly increased as consumers demand 
transparency and risk control, particularly after the financial crisis in 2008. 
However, most financial institutions run on a multitude of legacy systems with 
manual, error-prone processes. RegTech was created to satisfy the demand for a 
simpler, reliable system that satisfied compliance requirements. RegTech 
digitizes previously manual processes. It integrates the expertise from the 
industry and deep domains, providing a simpler solution to regulatory 
requirements and providing data insights [@regtech-sp20-516-230].

A great example of RegTech in action is with General Motors. Prior to utilizing 
IBM's services, GM relied on four different systems for risk control. Because 
everything was not in one system, real-time risk monitoring was unavailable. 
IBM stepped in creating IBM OpenPages, aligning all information into one 
system. As a result of this new platform, GM benefited through real-time 
analytics, consistent and standardized results, and lowered costs 
[@generalmotors-sp20-516-230].
